README.md, before:

# Roadmap to Mastery Linux Operating Systems

I made with care this roadmap in a way it can easily help you with some strategy to master your linux distro.  
Feel free to _**fork this repo**_ and going checking the items below as soon as you learn!  

---

- [ ] Concepts, A little bit of History, The Open Source and Free Software movements, the Linux Kernel, and why use a Linux Distro?
- [ ] install some friendly linux distro (like Mint or Manjaro) and make your default day to day use O.S.
  - [ ] learn how to connect to internet
  - [ ] learn how to graphically install some software
  - [ ] learn how to graphically updates your entire system
  - [ ] learn the standard Linux Directory Structure (/home, /media, /etc, /bin, /opt, /tmp etc...)
  - [ ] learn how to use basic tools like file manager, a text editor, web browser, calculator, email, some GUI compression app, some PDF app and the Libre Office (optional)
  - [ ] learn how to find/configure a printer and print documents and text files
  - [ ] learn how to customize your system (date format, color scheme, icons, languages, find apps)
- [ ] learn how to install, search and remove software from the command line with your distro's package manager 
- [ ] learn to use `nano` text editor
- [ ] learn to use terminal with GNU basic tools, like: `expr`, `date`, `uname`, `lsb_release`, `cal`, `calendar`, `whoami`, `ping`, `du`, `df`, `dd`, `free`
- [ ] learn to work with files, dirs and streams in terminal: `cd`, `rm`, `ls`, `dir`, `cp`, `mv`, `echo`, `cat`, `tail`, `head`, `wc`, `cmp`, `diff`, `find`, `pwd`, `cut`, `tee`
- [ ] learn how to get info and help about tools, the system and use things like info and man and log files at `/var/logs`
- [ ] learn compressing tools like `zip`, `xz`, `gzip` and `tar`
- [ ] learn about users, groups and permissions commands like `su`, `sudo`, `passwd`, `chgroup`, `chmod` and `chown`
- [ ] learn to use pipe ("|"), `sort`, `uniq`, `shuf`, `sed`, `grep` and `awk`
- [ ] learn shell scripting (variables, math, conditions, loops, functions, get user input, use with other tools etc) and use `source`, `xargs` and `time` command
- [ ] learn `vim` or `emacs` (as advanced text editors)
- [ ] learn about linux processes, services an jobs, using tools like `ps`, `pgrep`, `pstree`, `kill`, `killall`, `pidof`, `top`, `htop`, `bg`, `fg`, `crontab` and `systemctl`
- [ ] learn how to see hardware info with `lshw`, `dstat`, `lsusb`, `lspci` and `usbview`
- [ ] learn to use kernel modules with `lsmod`, `modinfo`, `modprobe`, `insmod`, `rmmod` and `usbmodules`

---
## Optional Goals to Achieve in life using Linux
- [ ] teach someone how to install and use some friendly Linux Distro
- [ ] compile some program with GCC and make
- [ ] learn how to manually by command-line connect to wifi using `ip`, `wpa_passphrase` + `wpa_supplicant`, set some dhcp client and let it be automatic
- [ ] download and compile a Kernel version
- [ ] learn to work remotely with `ssh`, `scp` and `rsync`
- [ ] download and install Arch or Gentoo the old terminal way with its doc's help
- [ ] become Linux Certified Professional (official certification) 
- [ ] create a software and distribute it under some package system (like `.deb`, `.rpm`. `.pkg` etc) and setup at some repository download website
- [ ] make your small and simple linux distro with LFS (Linux From Scratch)

### TO-DO:
- put some links/guides
- put some howto's, cheatsheets and fun commands
- a "where to go from here" / "what now" mini-guide

Commit message:

add goal to ressurect old computer

README.md, after:

# Roadmap to Mastery Linux Operating Systems

I made with care this roadmap in a way it can easily help you with some strategy to master your linux distro.  
Feel free to _**fork this repo**_ and going checking the items below as soon as you learn!  

---

- [ ] Concepts, A little bit of History, The Open Source and Free Software movements, the Linux Kernel, and why use a Linux Distro?
- [ ] install some friendly linux distro (like Mint or Manjaro) and make your default day to day use O.S.
  - [ ] learn how to connect to internet
  - [ ] learn how to graphically install some software
  - [ ] learn how to graphically updates your entire system
  - [ ] learn the standard Linux Directory Structure (/home, /media, /etc, /bin, /opt, /tmp etc...)
  - [ ] learn how to use basic tools like file manager, a text editor, web browser, calculator, email, some GUI compression app, some PDF app and the Libre Office (optional)
  - [ ] learn how to find/configure a printer and print documents and text files
  - [ ] learn how to customize your system (date format, color scheme, icons, languages, find apps)
- [ ] learn how to install, search and remove software from the command line with your distro's package manager 
- [ ] learn to use `nano` text editor
- [ ] learn to use terminal with GNU basic tools, like: `expr`, `date`, `uname`, `lsb_release`, `cal`, `calendar`, `whoami`, `ping`, `du`, `df`, `dd`, `free`
- [ ] learn to work with files, dirs and streams in terminal: `cd`, `rm`, `ls`, `dir`, `cp`, `mv`, `echo`, `cat`, `tail`, `head`, `wc`, `cmp`, `diff`, `find`, `pwd`, `cut`, `tee`
- [ ] learn how to get info and help about tools, the system and use things like info and man and log files at `/var/logs`
- [ ] learn compressing tools like `zip`, `xz`, `gzip` and `tar`
- [ ] learn about users, groups and permissions commands like `su`, `sudo`, `passwd`, `chgroup`, `chmod` and `chown`
- [ ] learn to use pipe ("|"), `sort`, `uniq`, `shuf`, `sed`, `grep` and `awk`
- [ ] learn shell scripting (variables, math, conditions, loops, functions, get user input, use with other tools etc) and use `source`, `xargs` and `time` command
- [ ] learn `vim` or `emacs` (as advanced text editors)
- [ ] learn about linux processes, services an jobs, using tools like `ps`, `pgrep`, `pstree`, `kill`, `killall`, `pidof`, `top`, `htop`, `bg`, `fg`, `crontab` and `systemctl`
- [ ] learn how to see hardware info with `lshw`, `dstat`, `lsusb`, `lspci` and `usbview`
- [ ] learn to use kernel modules with `lsmod`, `modinfo`, `modprobe`, `insmod`, `rmmod` and `usbmodules`

---
## Optional Goals to Achieve in life using Linux
- [ ] teach someone how to install and use some friendly Linux Distro
- [ ] compile some program with GCC and make
- [ ] learn how to manually by command-line connect to wifi using `ip`, `wpa_passphrase` + `wpa_supplicant`, set some dhcp client and let it be automatic
- [ ] download and compile a Kernel version
- [ ] ressurect an old computer with some very lightweight Linux Distro like Alpine, Void, TinyCore, Slax, NanoLinux or Lubuntu 
- [ ] learn to work remotely with `ssh`, `scp` and `rsync`
- [ ] download and install Arch or Gentoo the old terminal way with its doc's help
- [ ] become Linux Certified Professional (official certification) 
- [ ] create a software and distribute it under some package system (like `.deb`, `.rpm`. `.pkg` etc) and setup at some repository download website
- [ ] make your small and simple linux distro with LFS (Linux From Scratch)

### TO-DO:
- put some links/guides
- put some howto's, cheatsheets and fun commands
- a "where to go from here" / "what now" mini-guide
